Um, I wanted to there's so much stuff I
want to talk about, but before we get
here, I wanted to use you and we were
chatting this before we started about a
pulse check because there is just so
much um craziness happening. We look on
Twitter sometimes there's doom and
gloom. I think unemployment's at like
2%. Um, I I look and everyone in SAS and
cloud is still growing at epic rates.
HubSpot is coming up on $2 billion
in ARR, growing at an incredible rate.
So, so what's going on here? I want to I
want to grab a few quotes here and then
maybe we can do a deeper dive. Um,
clearly on the left you said, and this
is what you said just a couple weeks ago
on the earnings, deals are taking longer
to close, but on the right, HubSpot's
emerging as a platform of choice in
these uncertain times. So, what are you
really seeing on the ground across and
something thousand customers? What are
you really seeing?
I mean, look, Jason, these are fairly
business as notusual times, right? There
are years where it's business as usual,
and there are years when it's business
not as usual. And I would say 2020,
2021, and 2022 are three years that will
go down in history as nothing that is
usual or normal, right? So part of our
job is to kind of like make sense of
what is happening within the market. We
went through massive digital
acceleration and we all benefited from
it and our customers benefited by
thriving in a digital first world. And
then we entered this year not knowing it
was going to be rocky. But then we got
into high inflation rates uh an invasion
that is happening in one part of the
world. a massive social unrest and just
like market volatility uh across every
key metric. And so all of that leaves
our customers in a place where they're
being very thoughtful in terms of where
they spend their budget. Right? When you
are uncertain, the first thing that you
do is to look at what are you spending?
Do you have a clear path to getting
value for the spend? And are you able to
do more with less? you come down to some
of these fundamental questions and so
that's what is happening and that's why
you can explain both of these comments
right if you go back to what's our
customer thinking they're first saying
you know do I have a clear path to value
and can I do more more with less so
they're taking longer and then on the
flip side they're like okay if I want to
consolidate my tech stack to the key
applications the key platforms that
drive value it's going to come to a
handful full of those platforms and
therefore we do think that we are
becoming much more strategic for our
small and medium business customers. So,
let's step back for a minute. In the in
the true enterprise,
we went on this binge on digital
transformation, right? Last year, in the
true enterprise, CIO budgets expanded,
but SMBs did the same thing. SMBs don't
usually have a massive CIO team or IT
team. How did they think about digital
expansion last year? What did that mean
for an SMB?
Absolutely. I mean, look, there there
are couple of counterintuitive things
that have happened within the SMB space
over the last couple years. So, uh, put
ourselves back in March 2020. I don't
want to. It gives me It gives me deep
I'll go to May. March is still a little
traumatic, but keep going.
I know. I I hear you. I'm with you. When
I say March 2020, I get like a chill.
But, uh, what happened at that point is
that everybody wrote off SMBs. The first
thing coming out of March was SMBs are
going to get like wiped out.
Yeah.
Are just going to completely disappear.
businesses are going to fold, bankruptcy
is going to increase, things are going
to disappear. That is not what happened
in 2020. What actually happened is SMB
said, "Okay, we're going to be very
thoughtful. We're going to pivot very
hard and we're going to find new ways to
thrive." And the way we will do that is
by going digital, right? Yes. That is
not what was expected sitting in March.
And so in May, which I agree with you,
much better time than March. But in May,
what happened is that smallmedium
businesses said, "I am pivoting hard to
being digital first." Even if they
didn't know how to get on a website,
even if they didn't know how to get on
email marketing or having these
different channels to digitally connect
with customers, they found a way. And
that has kind of led to this
transformation. What happened in 2021
is something different which is the same
SMBs who said okay I don't know how to
get onto digital now I'm getting onto
digital they went on a frenzied pace of
adding point solutions you will be
surprised the average number of business
applications that a smallmedium business
has is 248
right 248 solutions so We went on this
frenzy pace of buying up point solutions
and that is what happened last year.
Why? Because we had to keep up with
growth. We had to keep up with the
digital acceleration. We had to keep up
with our customers that were now trying
to connect with us on you know social,
on Twitter, on LinkedIn, on you know
email, on your website like they So
that's what happened. Now what is
happening right now is we cannot keep up
that pace. Now it's got to come back to
the strategic few that are going to
drive value for the SMB because every
SMB leader you know sole owner is saying
how can I do more with less and so I
think if you track where SMBs are now it
is how can I do more with less? How can
I eliminate some of these point
solutions so I can be much more
efficient with my capital and how can I
continue to maintain that contact with
our customers so even during uncertain
times we can get very profitable growth
right so I think that's what is kind of
happening
and do you think these and and I've seen
the octad and others but I haven't seen
this 248 per S&B it's really interesting
do do you have insights do you think
that that was an explosion do you think
it will stay constant? Do you think that
are we if we're selling to SMBs, are we
competing for one out of 250 slots? Do
you have a sense of how that will look
going forward?
I mean, look, everything comes in
cycles, you know, within business.
There's a period of, you know, explosion
of point solutions. There's a period of
consolidation of point solutions.
There's the period where everything is
bundled and there's a period where
everything is unbundled. I mean if you
go back you know and start looking at
the different S-curves we've gone
through those cycles. So I think we've
just gone through the cycle of explosion
and massive point you know solution
adoption. Now we have to go through a
period of connected solutions right we
cannot just have I'm not saying point
solutions are all bad. I think you're
not going to go from 24A to two. That's
not possible. But I think you're going
to have to think about how are you going
to connect some of these solutions? How
are you going to get the value out of
them and what is absolutely need to have
versus what is nice to have.
Yeah. And there was um you know there
was and and that's so interesting you
you you made this comment um I think
maybe at the last call or before that
over its history HubSpot's gone from a
nice to have to a need to have or some
version of that. What is what I I would
have thought you know having been doing
this for a while HubSpot was always a
must-have and but did you mean that
because it became multi-product or a hub
or what does that mean because that's so
such an important concept these days I
think.
Yeah I I mean look uh when we started
and you followed us for a very long time
we started as a marketing automation
company.
Yep. And uh the biggest transformations
probably one of the the best you know
strategic move that Brian and DHS could
have done is just take us from that
marketing automation company to a CRM
you know platform company and uh you
know I think like one of the questions I
get is hey uh you are big in marketing
you know marketing budgets are getting
cut you know what's going to happen as
you look at like 2023 And I think my uh
there are two responses. I one is that
we're no longer a marketing automation
company. We've gone on the journey and
you have amazing stats about us. We've
gone on that multihub path and we are
much more of a CRM platform which means
from marketing to sales to service to
your operations analyst we are powering
a lot of the front office for
smallmedium businesses. I think the
second part of the equation is exactly
what we've just spent talking about
Jason which is SMBs you know 10 years
ago they may have had couple of things
that they were depending on but really
you know it was not as much of a digital
uh first you know way of communicating
with customers. In the last couple of
years, SMBs have become much more
digital first in how they connect with
customers, which means
marketing automation, sales automation,
services automation are all core, you
know, to how uh scaling companies run.
Yeah. One followup on that just because
I get confused um because you do have
this this such wide view. Cutting
marketing budgets for next year, is that
really true? Clearly we see if we look
at what's happening with Facebook and on
the social media. Obviously advertising
budgets in some cases are getting
slashed but our economy is still doing
reasonably well right um we still have
to grow our customer base. We have to
market to them. We have to track them.
Like is that real are we really cutting
marketing budgets or are we overreacting
to the cut of nice to have tools? What's
really happening out there?
I mean it's really a good question. I've
uh I think I've spoken to more customers
in the last few months than you know the
last couple of years and that's because
a lot more of CEOs, CFOs and CMOs are
getting engaged in the process and in
the final decision- making. So that is
definitely a shift that we're seeing.
Yeah.
As I talk to them,
here's what is top of mind. It's not
that marketing budget is getting cut. It
is the impact of marketing needs to be
exceptionally clear. Which means any
spend that you have that is directly
connected to driving revenue and growth
is in but any spend that you have which
has you know kind of a squishy
connection to driving revenue and growth
and we know those right you know those
are not getting prioritized. So the
priority is what can drive growth, what
can get better alignment between
marketing and sales and what can help us
drive you know growth in a period of
uncertainty. Those are the kinds of
projects and initiatives that are
getting funded um across marketing and
sales
and that's um
a couple just interesting things you
said. You're I mean you're selling to
the high end of SMBs, right? Uh I
remember Brian said it's the M in SMB.
Um, our deal size is very low, five
figures on average, but HubSpot's now
needing to sell, and we see this across
everyone initially, but you're selling
to more stakeholders, more CFO and CEO
conversations than like Q1 of this year.
You have to you've had to evolve the the
stakeholders you sell as well, even at
your price point.
Absolutely. And and so just to be clear,
I completely agree with Brian. It's uh
we're talking to more M portion of the
SMB. Yeah. The market that we are
focused on is our companies with one to
2,000 employees, right? That is the
market that we're focused on. Now, a
10erson company, very different from a
thousand person company. A 10erson
company still cares about value, still
cares about doing more with less, but
they're okay going onto our website,
trying our product, and using a credit
card and buying, you know, online. But a
thousand person company now has way more
uh executives involved in the
decision-making process, right? The
thousand person company now has
sometimes the board involved. definitely
this CEO or the CFO involved in terms of
the final decision- making and that's
again because you know we're entering a
period where every dollar counts and
impact of every dollar makes a
difference and so I think um absolutely
that has been a big shift probably even
in the second part of this year we
started seeing it in June and I think
it's gotten much more intense as we've
gone through the last couple quarters
so you've I mean you've materially
changed your playbook book to sell to
more stakeholders as the year's gone on.
Absolutely. I mean, last year our uh
conversations with customers where how
do we get you to be digital and first
and how can we help you know all of the
digitization that's happening within the
front office right now. It is how can we
help you do more with less? How can we
give you clear business impact the
shortest time to implement and the
shortest time and path to value so that
you can continue to grow. Right? So the
conversations are different, the
stakeholders are different and the
compelling reasons to uh make change is
also very different.
Cool. Well, let me talk about these last
couple things on the slide, then we can
transition to some of the the secret
sauce for HubSpot. But since you've
publicly disclosed it, it's really just
the unknown secret sauce. But this one
on the bottom left,
um it's interesting because HubSpot, you
know, relative to of its life came to
free and premium later in its life
cycle, right?
Um but now in this market, we've moved
high value features like marketing
automation that we talked about down to
starter and early stage with free CRM
and CMS. So you're going freer as a
reaction to the current macro effects
and and that's and that is that working?
Absolutely. Look, I I will tell you that
um this is one of the things that we did
at the beginning of the pandemic as
well, right?
Yes. Everyone did this in March 2020,
right? Uh to help out customers and
stress, right?
And we did this at the beginning and it
worked. Uh you know we at the beginning
of the pandemic we cut the prices of
starter and we moved a number of high
value features down into the premium
ture because we wanted uh first of all
you know customers who are looking to
survive and thrive and get digital. We
wanted to be able to reach them fast. I
think the same thing has continued now.
it is digital is here to stay and not
every SMB out there has uh been on that
journey and therefore we want to
continue to provide the most value for
our our customers that are getting
started and so I think we'll talk a lot
more about this as we go into the not so
secret sauce spot but I think this has
been a play for us for u multiple years
now and it's continuing to work
and how do you you know when you have
these conversations internally putting
more features into free. I know you have
a great management team, but there's
always some tension with sales for sure,
right? Of wanting to use a, you know, I
hate this term, but wanting to use a
choke, wanting to standardize additions,
wanting to push people up because they
have a number to hit. Sometimes there's
tension with success. How do you like AB
test this? How do you get the data to
know that putting more into free is a is
a good investment? How do you know? Or
do you just have to go with your gut?
How do you get the data?
uh you know I think uh you have to trust
data right and yes exactly it's exactly
that AB testing the one thing I will say
is in our segmentation so if you take
that 1 to200 segment that we just talked
about Jason
yes
the one to 10 for us is very much a
productled motion right it's you know we
want uh the widest possible distribution
and the most seamless way to get
companies started on digital and that's
all through product and that actually
gives us the ability to do a lot more AB
testing than if everything were in the
hands of sales and so uh then you look
at the 20 to 200 segment we call it
mid-market that's all sales and the 200
to 200 segment which is we call
corporate and that's all sales but we do
have a segment of the market which is
productled and that gives us the ability
to test And the first principle is how
do we solve for the customer and what
are the sets of features what's top of
mind for customers and what are the sets
of features that will help them get on
the right path to getting value out of
their digital investments. And so I
think that's how we think about it from
a first principles perspective. How do
you just at a C this one's always
interesting to me at a CEO level when
you have this 1 to 10 this PLG segment
which is longtail they're HubSpot
champions they love you they watch you
online but the direct revenue isn't huge
in the early days right how do you
allocate team resources how do you get
mind share um features story points
marketing like how do you how do you
figure out how much of the HubSpot
budget that long tail gets
it it comes uh with starting with a
clear strategy, right? You know, you
can't get to resource allocation without
having clarity on what you're doing and
why you're doing. For us, our fremium
motion and starter is exceptionally
important to the strategic, you know, uh
mission that we are in. Our mission is
to help millions of organizations and if
you don't have wide enough distribution
to get millions of organizations to try
your you know uh CRM then you're not
going to get there. So I think it starts
with clarity of what's your mission is
to get millions of organizations to
grow. Yes.
Therefore what do you need? You need the
widest possible distribution and
therefore how do you allocate resources?
You got to make sure that you know it is
part of the strategic objectives. We
have six strategic objectives in the
company. This has consistently been one
of the top five or six uh objective for
the last five years. And so because by
the time you get to the budget, you're
asking what's my strategic objective and
how do I make sure that we're making
enough progress in the strategic
objective. So you got to my my point of
view is get clear on strategy.
really understand why you're doing
certain things and why that is important
for the long term you know of your
company and then allocate resources then
you avoid a lot of the you know I don't
have resource here and I don't have this
because you got to be able to have
clarity in terms of the strategic bets
that you're making.
Yeah. And so that's a good learning for
me. I I think I think it's hard to have
more than five or six priorities, right?
Or goals, but this was one of yours,
right?
Yeah. Absolutely.
And that that's how it got resourced at
the end of the day is that one of the
top it didn't fall below that that that
that line.
That's right.
All right. So, let's tie that to some of
the secret sauce. Again, if HubSpot one
of the I I I write it up on Saster, but
one of the great at least for now is as
we're crossing again a stunning two
billionaire, HubSpot does an amazing job
in its investor session actually sharing
a lot of metrics and insights that
others don't because you're not required
to do this, right? It's educating the
audience. So, so I steal these secret
secret lessons from HubSpot, but they're
all public, but I want to make sure we
can get through these because they're so
interesting. But the first one, because
you tied on this today, and this is the
opposite of what I see with so many SAS
companies that are getting that that are
getting less free, that are more contact
me, more driving you through sales even
for the small. You have today 60% try a
free product first. So, what does this
what does this really mean?
So, so let's talk about the not so
secret sauce. And this is probably the
first of the not so secret sauce behind
HubSpot's growth.
It uh it may not be this clear but
HubSpot you know for maybe the first
eight to nine years of our growth was uh
just a single or two motions which is
like sales direct sales and partner
sales. Those were the two channels of
distribution. At some point in 2016 uh
16 to 17 uh Brian Dhmesh made this
really counterintuitive bet that they
were going to go from a salesled motion
to a productled motion. Most companies
don't do that and in fact like you know
as you mentioned I came from Dropbox
where we went from productled motion to
salesled motion. We took you know
multiple steps backwards to go to a free
product. And you can ask the question
why did you do that? Like
it's radical.
It's radical and counterintuitive.
Uh that you would take a few steps
backward. And here's why. You have got
to if you're in SAS today, you have got
to get the widest possible distribution.
Think about it as like your front door.
And if you have a super narrow front
door and you can only get like a single
file of people walking through the front
door, it's not useful for your growth.
What you need is the broadest possible
front door where you can get the most
number of people and that has been uh
almost like a first principle for us to
think about distribution and therefore
what do you do? You have like a free
product. Uh we started with free CRM and
in fact this year we added free CMS. So
yeah you want to get like a website up
and running you know you want to do it
in like half hour here's a free CMS.
Why? because people want the website
even before they want a CRM, right? So,
it actually e even more opens up the
front door. We have free blogs. Why?
Because we have 30 million visitors to
our website reading our content. That's
a big front door. So we think about you
know free and the role of free is having
the widest possible distribution front
door for people to walk in and then our
job is to add value is to make you know
them see what we can help them with in
terms of growth and then be able to you
know if they recognize the value convert
them into paid you know users and so I
think that's the strategy we have right
now 1 million weekly active users of our
CRM, right? And that is powerful and
that is what you know leads to the 60%
of customers trying the free product and
then buying a paid product.
Got it. And it's going but in this chart
it's gone up, right? It's gone up the
percentage, right?
Yep. Exactly. Exactly.
Is that just by promoting it? Is it even
more of the top five strategy? Because
this there's still like the fact that I
I'm color blind, but I think the red the
red bars going up is even more is just
as counterintuitive as going from
salesled to productled, right? To go
freer, right?
Absolutely. I mean, you're reading the
colors, right? It is going up. So, why
is that going up? Because of the number
of features that we keep bringing down
to free and level of, you know, kind of
acquisition engine that we drive, right?
So I think you make the free product
really valuable, not free for the sake
of free but you make the free product
really valuable and you help customers
try it and then in you know it drives
the conversion. So I think that's how we
think about it philosophically.
Would um just to kind of tie all these
learnings and even going back to Dropbox
and others do have you learn to er on
the side of including more in free
rather than less?
That's a that's a good question. um for
us uh I think that would be the case and
it does two things. It actually you know
helps us to widen that distribution
front door I just talked about. It also
forces our product organization to keep
adding innovation at the top right you
know you think about this like we have
three tiers of products starter pro and
enterprise now a lot of times I have
been in other places where you take a
product and you kind of like you take a
feature it's high value and then you
move it to the next upper tier for
monetization
that's the classic pattern right
that's the classic pattern we kind of do
the opposite because we want our product
organization to keep adding innovation
at the top, right? That's like one. The
other thing is it also forces us to
maintain that consumer-like ease of use
because if you keep moving things to the
bottom and you keep opening up the
funnel at the bottom, you it's all
product and it's all like, you know,
consumer-like ease of use. And when you
do that, then all customers benefit. All
customers benefit from easy to use, you
know, CRM software, right? So
yeah, that is the um that is as often as
discussed I think it's still under
discussed that if you get nothing else
out of free you make the product easier
to use. It has to be right you can't
cheat you can't cheat with an onboarding
team or a CS team or an enablement team
right and and so as a founder I think
you should give up free at the you
should try to never give it up no matter
what the team wants because your product
always gets clunky when you do. That's
absolutely right. Like you hit that
golden nugget there. That's the, you
know, uh, every single time you think
about why am I investing in free and
what am I going to get out of free, it
actually forces you to remain true to
having easy to use and consumer grade
products.
Yes. Okay. So this next one, um,
multi-roduct and I think a few years
back this was something we were all
still trying to learn. Now we get it,
right? because now there's so many
leaders that are past 500 million a
billion in revenue. Um, and so this is
an interesting chart. There's a lot
going on here. But what does this mean?
50% of new upmarket customers land with
two or more hubs that customers so
quickly use use multi-product from from
the get-go. And h if that's so, how do
you get them to do that?
Yeah, I mean look, I think taking a
bigger picture, we started talking about
the not so secret sauce. Yeah, the first
one is wide distribution. The second one
is very broad markets and total
addressable markets, right? That's the
that's what you really are focused on.
Um,
one of probably the most strategic bets
that Brian and Dash made was to again go
from marketing automation to CRM. And
that bet led us to going with marketing
hub followed by sales hub followed by
service hub followed by CMS and
operations. So we now have you know five
ma major hubs and then a whole platform
right that's exceptionally important if
you think about you know you're a
founder and you're kind of you know
thinking about where your market
opportunity is certainly get your first
one but always be thinking about what
are the second act third act fourth act
to be able to follow and that you know
having a broader view of the total
addressable market is important for us
um this metric is really important it is
you know how are we doing in becoming
the platform of choice for scaling
companies not just the marketing
automation product for scaling companies
but how are we doing in helping our
customers grow with multiple products
right that is that's the strategic you
know uh objective that we are going
after which means this metric of
multihub is important you know are you
start are you starting with just
marketing hub are you starting with
marketing hub and sales hub are you
starting with marketing sales service
hub. And so we think about it as uh if
we need to be a strategic platform for
scaling companies, then we got to get
them uh in on the journey of adopting
more. But more than that, it comes back
to what are we trying to solve for our
customers. Our customers are, you know,
struggling with two choices today.
Either they take a whole set of point
solutions, stitch it together, try to
get a sense of where customers are in
their journey between 10 marketing
solutions and 20 sales solutions and so
on. They have that choice. It's very
difficult. It's cumbersome or they have
the choice of going to an
enterprisegrade, you know, product and
they know this is not what I need. Like
there's I don't have the time for it.
they think okay I'm I need this
enterprisegrade product and I'm going to
you know try and make it work for my
business those are the two you know kind
of paths that they look at and then we
are made for this market so for us it is
no you don't need to stitch together you
know 20 things because we are taking the
time to craft marketing sales service
into one seamless data structure one
seamless you know user interface that is
easy for you to buy, easy for you to use
and easy for you to adopt. And that is
the value proposition that we provide
for customers. We're solving a very
important problem for our customers and
therefore it shows up in multi-product,
you know, uh stats. It's never the we
want to drive this stat and we're doing
this. It's this is what we want to solve
for our customers and therefore it shows
up in a number somewhere. Yeah, a couple
so many things jump out at me at this
and we'll talk about in our in our last
slide the different revenue
contributions of the different product
lines. But now that I see this for new
customers, sales hub is bigger than
marketing and two hubs is bigger than
than marketing, right? How how did you
reposition for real HubSpot as CRM?
Right? This happened at some point. I
don't know when it happens, but um how
do you change um it's how do you change
the way folks think about a vendor as a
default behavior? How did you
communicate this? Because obviously it's
been wildly effective, but what what
were the how did we how did you do it
slowly
and carefully? I mean uh Jason, you've
been you know uh just a constant
observer learner of how uh this type of
like motion happens. It's a very slow
motion. Let me tell you the couple of
things that we did. Um,
we have a very very broad front door in
terms of blog content, in terms of
academy content. We actually have what
we call hundreds of professors within
our academy that teach courses on
marketing that teach courses on sales.
And I think if you go uh out and search
on inside sales, product marketing, you
know, acquisition marketing, you do any
almost any search on some front office
topic, I think HubSpot will come up in
the first five, you know, links that you
get. And and that is the way that you
begin to gain, you know, uh credibility
with the marketeers, with the
salespeople, with the operations experts
out there in the world. We want to give
value to them and we're giving value
through content, through courses,
through uh community. We're providing
that to them and that helps us be seen
as a credible source. I think most of
the time when customers I talk to
customers and they would have purchased
like sales hub or marketing hub and I
ask them so how do you get to know uh
HubSpot and they'll be like oh three
years ago I read this you know blog and
I go to your website to learn about you
know anything in product marketing or
anything in acquisition marketing
anything in inside sales so I think like
for us it started with the strategy of
providing value so that we can gain
credibility with the marketeers and the
sales you know teams. The second thing
that we did is um we have a hubspot for
startup program. So
y
when you get started we just want you to
think about us as you know the uh the
solution that can just help you you know
get started and begin to scale and you
know we have had many unicorns as part
of that right like we we have helped
companies get started but more important
as they continue to scale and become a
unicorn we're there scaling for them and
so uh just having early entree points
with you know uh startups so that they
think about us at the first point when
they want a website when they want the
first CRM they think about us and then
they can continue and so we've seated
the market and again we've gained
credibility and then over a period of
time I think our product uh used to be
in a place where it was an exceptionally
good fit for a 20% company we've added a
ton of power you know that has made it
exceptionally powerful while still
keeping the ease of use that our
customers love us for. And so product
innovation, keeping that pace of the
product innovation going has been, you
know, part of how we've been able to get
there. Yeah. One related one of this and
then I want to move on the next one, but
and maybe it's a nonpoint, but um when
you're building a platform that can do
so many things, h how do you communicate
co-opetition?
And what I mean is, yes, it's great if I
use HubSpot for sales, marketing, CMS,
service, everything, now e-commerce,
payments, but you also want to support
customers that for whatever reason,
right or wrong, use adjacent vendors.
How do you get the team to give
customers the best advice? Like, I don't
think it's simple, right? Because um
it's it's it's it's complicated to
communicate the realistic pros and cons
of of of a platform versus adding point
solutions, right?
Yeah. Absolutely. And look, I think for
us, um,
we had a customer panel. We do customer
panels every month. Uh, one of the first
meetings of the month. Yesterday, we had
a customer panel. And Jason, um, one of
our customers said, we asked the
question of, "Hey, why do you pick us?
We're always curious. Why do you pick
us?" And uh and this customer said to us
and this was like our management team
like listening on the call and said uh
we did an RFP. We actually talked to
multiple you know folks before making
the bet.
Everybody was trying to sell us their
solution and you and your sales team
tried to help us solve our problem.
Yep.
And that's the fundamental difference,
right? you know, we're not there to sell
our solution and sell all of the
products and you only talk about like
HubSpot. We we start with what's the
problem that you're trying to solve and
we'll be the first one to say oh this
one I think go with marketing hub or
this one go with all and so we start and
we get our uh team to really get curious
about the customer's business and the
problems that we are trying to solve. I
think that's part a how we approach and
we're here for the long game. You know,
we're not here to, you know, sell
something today and disappear. We want
to have a long-standing relationship
with our customers. The second thing is
actually walking the walk, you know, on
integrations.
We have 1,200 integrations with, you
know, possibly the longest tale of, you
know, um, vendors within that stack,
right? So we're not saying, hey, we're
the only choice. We're saying, okay, if
we can help you solve the problems and
we can do it in a very connected manner
and help you see where your customer is
in your journey, great. If not, we
totally understand that you need to
bring, you know, the data from your
other systems. And so we actually have a
robust ecosystem. We've invested in
integrations and we have like 1,200
integrations which are kind of like the
longtail integrations which means we're
putting our, you know, word where our
mouth is, right? We're actually
investing to help our customers solve
the integration problem if they choose
to do it that way.
And just one niche question, but it's
it's so interesting for folks that might
that are listening or might watch this
later. Do you have do you have data and
you may not for that ecosystem, what
percent of each HubSpot dollar, how much
more goes into partners? Do you do you
know um in the old Salesforce days we
got a lot of data but is it is it one to
one do they spend another 30% on
partners do you have a sense
on partners that are uh from a software
perspective
well probably both are interesting right
there's enablement partners right and
then there's software partners
so um you know we actually have an IDC
paper and I can share it you know with
you so you can like let the team know uh
after um it doesn't quite talk about the
software ecosystem on top. But for every
dollar that a customer spends on
HubSpot, there is six additional dollars
spent in the ecosystem. And that is from
I see all in everything is six
additional dollars, right?
There's additional software, there is
implementation,
there is customization, there's just
more work, right? So I think we are
becoming a fairly big ecosystem player.
So for every co every every dollar
customer spends there's like more five
to six dollars that is spent
additionally within the ecosystem.
Got it. Um that's do you know just to
get people excited to build on HubSpot
that aren't already do you know what can
can you make a hund00 million as an ISV
or whatever term we use on the HubSpot
ecosystem today. Are we there today? Are
we trending there? Like can
I don't know. I I mean I don't have the
data so I can't tell you whether we are
there today or not. I I think our first
focus is to get our um solution partner
ecosystem. You know, these are the
partners that uh help our customers on
board, help our customers implement,
migrate and get value out of HubSpot.
Our first focus is to help them thrive,
right? Uh and I think, you know, we're
then on the path to getting a robust
software ecosystem of partners to build.
We have a marketplace that's, you know,
pretty robust and then I'd have to go
and check if there there are businesses
that are completely built on HubSpot.
We're on
I'm just seeing more and more startups.
It it's like a switch.
Yes.
Where I'll I'll talk to them or hear
from them or get a deck where they are
HubSpot first as their platform, right?
And it just takes a certain amount of
scale, right, for your for that to
happen, right? Um, but it's interesting
to me when I I saw this happen over the
last 12 months. I saw more and more
first is like we're doing this HubSpot
first and it's a if you can ride that
wave as a partner, right? It it's it's
one of the greatest tailwinds there is,
isn't it? Because HubSpot's growing 30
something% a year organically.
Yep. Absolutely. I think I think you're
you're right on on that.
All right. this one. Um, and um, maybe
we've hit some of this, but I'm just
because you've got a background in
customer on so many different sides.
What's your learning on this? HubSpot
went from I didn't even know this until
uh, I think Dsh and Brian said it s from
like 85% NR all the way up into like 30
or 40 million, right? I was I was
shocked. I didn't know that to 100%
which was the big you know retain it all
and now well above this 109 110 what's
your all of your learnings from this
what's your perspective on how to how to
drive this
so you know before uh my current role as
CEO I was the chief customer officer
I guess this was your top KPI maybe
right
this is literally I was going to say
this is my top KPI I've I've thought
about this KPI in my career for a long
time and even before HubSpot To me, net
revenue retention is the single
northstar metric for SAS company. Even
beyond revenue growth, I don't actually
care about revenue growth. I care about
net revenue retention. And it's, you
know, because of what it represents for
a SAS company, it means that you are
retaining your customers because the
underlying metric is, you know,
retention, customer dollar retention,
right? and you are continuing to drive
value so that your customers expand what
they're buying from you. That's the
upsell. Uh and then you protect yourself
from downell, right? So net retention is
are you keeping your customers? Are you
protecting from downells? And are you
continuing to add value such that
they'll buy more from you and get more
value from you. So from a metrics
perspective, it doesn't get any more
northstar than net revenue retention.
And what do you need for this? You first
of all need to make sure that any
customer that comes, you know, um to
HubSpot, they are onboarded, right? They
begin to engage with our uh solutions,
right? And they get value, right? And
it's not a value where you get to 12
months and you're having a renewal
conversation and you're like, "Hey, did
you get value?" It's consistently
tracking what are the onboarding
metrics, what are the engagement metrics
and how much is the product usage and we
track all of that. And so over a period
of time with the investments that we
have made from a product perspective,
we've been able to show that value for
customers so that they retain better.
And then the second part of the uh
equation is what we just talked about
with multihubs, right? when you retain
then you know are you going to get more
value from the second additional hub or
the third additional hub and we hope
that by building crafted solutions that
are powerful at the same time easy to
use our customers that start with one
hub then see the value of another hub or
another hub and when you do that then
your you know uh upgrades actually
increase and so the revenue venue
retention improves, right? So, it really
again while it's a northstar metric, you
have to really pay attention to what are
you doing in the business to drive that
northstar metric. Are you building
valuable products? Are you making sure
that customers get value out of the
products? And then are you continuing
to, you know, help them grow? And that's
the focus for uh how you drive NR. So do
you think just this is like a meta
question and especially when you're a
public company being driving to more and
more profitability it's hard but the
extra dollar do you put it in sales or
customer success then
you put it in product
well maybe that's the answer you put it
in product
yes
that's that's the way I think about it
you put it in product
I think that's a good answer actually
okay I know we'll run out of time soon I
wanted to at least touch on one or two
things before we do this slide is just
so interesting. I think anyone watching,
reading, listening to this on our, you
know, 100,000 people listening to our
podcast, but these are some things that
are key beyond multiroduct and others to
HubSpot success going global solutions
partners and we hit this a little bit on
on new versus expansion. Maybe just
quickly this solutions partner thing if
people don't study HubSpot or some
others. This is just in non-intuitively
so important in some SMBs, right? Is
your partners. 43% of your revenue when
this was made, right? It may even be
higher today. So, what's going on with
these partners, these implementation
partners and and how does how do you
enable them and how does this work?
It's so important and it's uh you know,
if you talk about again the not so
secret sauce, we talked about
distribution, we talked about big TAM,
the next is
how do you build a moat? How do you
build a moat? And you cannot build a
moat uh by just having direct sales. you
really have to have a thriving uh
partner ecosystem and for us you know we
started very early with the partner
ecosystem. um they originally started as
marketing agencies and over a period of
time we have brought them along the
journey from going from marketing
agencies to now full CRM implementers
right that's the thing
and they're the same folks they've made
that journey they've made that switch
too
many of them have I mean surprisingly
I'd say the best ones that we have
within our ecosystem are the ones that
started with us as a marketing agency
saw where we were taking you know the
company the product and have enrolled in
that journey and have come with us and
I'm really happy with that right I think
that's that's a key if you think about
partner ecosystem you just have to have
very clear message in terms of your
strategy so a couple years ago we went
and said our strategy is to sell and
service with partners and we were clear
about it we gave the stat that for every
dollar that a customer spends there is
six additional
within the ecosystem. So you want to
build a you know business like this is
the time for you to kind of you know
engage with us. Um so get the strategy
right and there are a lot of things
learnings in terms of avoiding conflict
and making sure that the right
incentives are in place for the direct
sales team and the partner sales team to
be on the same page. At the end of the
day you know we're here to serve the
customer. the more we can collaborate
with our partners uh and the direct
sales team and the partner sales team
like works very closely together the
better our customers uh get value from
HubSpot and so I think we've gone to
that in addition to that you got to have
a ton of enablement you got to treat
partners you know they they get to hear
about big feature launches way before
they're enabled uh and they come along
the journey with us and so it's become
you know a really key part of our
overall distribution strategy. So we
have productled motion, we have salesled
motion, we have partnerled motion.
Yeah, people missed this third one. And
if you if if you had to guess what
percent of your solution partners
basically only sell or deploy HubSpot.
Oh, majority.
Majority. That's the moat that people
don't get, right? Is these partners
don't have the energy that even if they
they want to pick one great solution and
then they got to learn it, right? They
got to get good at it. They got to
deploy. They don't want three vendor
three competing solutions, do they?
They don't. So if you can own this, Yep.
you it it is a bigger moat than you
realize, right? Um that's a good one.
Okay. So the last one on this one, maybe
if there's any insights on the left,
just
you know, the internet, the browser
works everywhere on Earth, right? I
think even in the space station and
Antarctica, although it's slow. Um uh
and I always encourage people to follow
the international growth. Any any
particular insights here in general or
over your career? because this is I know
this has varied a little bit but
whatever it exactly is today it's like
half international half North America US
like for years.
Yes absolutely. So here is a
counterintuitive
um you know first principle for thinking
about expansion.
Yes.
Um HubSpot we have customers in over 130
countries but the counterintuitive bet
is focus on less than 10. And I've kind
of done this every time I think about
this like you know uh you don't want to
think about you know geographical
expansion as more it is less is better
in terms of geographical expansion. So
one of the things that we said is that
for us we will focus on seven to eight
key markets and when we say focus on
seven to key eight markets it's language
it's localization it's thinking about
you know um local you know folks in
country in the entity supporting the
local currency you know having local
presence right that type of focus you
know needs to be there for some core
markets And how do we pick those core
markets? We look at TAM, a total
addressable market. We look at the
existing install base. You said it
right. You know, if there's an browser,
there's, you know, customer somewhere
there. But we look at the existing
install base. We look at the net growth
in ARR within within that market and we
look at our ability to serve that market
with the right language skills and the
localization. So we look at these four
factors and you can have a list of 120
countries but pretty quickly you'll get
to 80% of your revenue comes from less
than 10 countries in almost every SAS
company that I've been in. So focus on
that. Make sure that you are with the uh
investments you make in English or you
know like broad languages serve all of
your customers but make sure that you're
focused and so for us it has been uh do
less but do it effectively when it comes
to geographical expansion.
Got it. And so you have you have like
eight or 10 core offices GMs or however
they're they're set up today. That's
about the right number.
Yeah. core core countries that we are
really focused on and those core
countries where we are focused on we put
a lot of effort in terms of product in
terms of marketing in terms of sales
right and everything else we serve um
primarily with English right
yeah it's a good it's a super helpful
insight okay I know we're almost over or
close to over I just wanted to close on
that we could spend half an hour on this
slide because it's so interesting about
what's going on at HubSpot that saleshub
is is a half billion dollars in run rate
growing the fa the as fast as anything
right it could be this could be a a five
or t billion dollar company on its own
right I mean if it it does it's
integrated right um service hub you've
got a hundred million dollar business
growing 50% right that's a unicorn or or
right there um we talked about
multi-product but what's not obvious
here what's in what what are you
thinking about at the co level and how
to stitch together really five material
product lines today, right? Even if
OpsHub is 35 million, that's that's a
lot, right? If you squint into the
future,
I mean, OpsHub got started a year ago.
So,
yeah,
it's crazy. That's that's 35 million in
one year.
Yes. We we launched OpsHub in 2021.
Got it.
Well, the customers wanted it.
Absolutely. Absolutely. So, but but
here's the thing though. Um while you
point out that there is potential for
multi-billion dollar businesses and we
are very excited about that the
fundamental thing here is what are we
solving for our customers. You know
customers today uh they have this crisis
of disconnection. There are too many
systems, their people are spread in too
many different places and their customer
journey and the information about their
customer is across so many things that
it's hard for our customers to connect
with their end customers.
That's the problem that we're solving
and we're very clear about that. We want
to help our customers connect with their
customers better you know through
multiple channels through multiple silos
within the organization through uh the
whether they're a remote company or a
hybrid company or in office company like
through different ways in which
connecting they're connecting to
customers that's the problem we're
solving therefore it makes us sense to
have connected applications and
connected platform that that helps our
customers so I think like yes We are
excited about the potential, but more
importantly, we're excited about what we
can help our customers solve in a very
very disconnected world right now.
Yeah. And then maybe one last question.
I might ask it inelegantly, but um one
of the big headaches with lots of
vendors is just the work to onboard
them, to talk to them, to talk to a rep,
to have to do a demo, to have to pay it,
put go through procurement, put it on
your credit card. Um, are there any is
there any secret sauce in how you make
it even easier for folks to expand
adoption by making it by taking the
maximum amount of friction here when I'm
already invested in HubSpot?
Yeah, I mean this is the thing I Jason
if you have like uh secrets for that let
me know because we are constantly
thinking about how do you reduce the
friction and our value proposition is
easy to buy, easy to use and easy to
love, right? like that's our value
proposition and so every uh feedback
that we get from our customer on a
friction point in that process we go
back and like try to solve that friction
point and so I think you have to be very
very uh focused on making that customer
journey uh in adopting your product
whether it's landing and expanding and
or landing and expanding and adding
additional products you got to make
every one of those touch points easier
uh this is where product le helps this
is where you know uh trying and buying
like obviously helps. This is where
making sure that every handoff is
valuable, you know, between sales and
onboarding, onboarding and customer
success, customer success and contract
management. Every one of those, you
know, should be like a valuable
connection to our customers. And that's
what that's a um that's something that
we work towards every single day and we
learn how to get better every single
day.
Yeah. Not that I have any amazing
insights, but one thing that I think
folks on the B2D side have gotten good
at um in terms of evangelists that we
haven't gotten as good in pro on the B2B
side is gurus is gurus, right? Every API
company has gurus and their only job
they don't I don't know what their KPIs
are, but their job is to make to
increase API adoption. And we don't do
that enough on the B2B a guru who just
their only job for a leading vendor
is every 60 days not to be customer
success not to have a QBR but just be
it's it's it's Linda it's Jason it's
it's it's a million I'm your guru and
I'm just going to give you tips
tips to do it um it costs money for
people but I would love it if more B2B
people uh copy this from B to D had more
evangelists and gurus
I like that more evangelists and gurus
anyhow this was amazing we I know we
went the whole time. You were very
generous. I don't know how much time you
had scheduled, but we took every minute
of your extremely busy schedule, but
this was great. Thank you for giving us
the secret playbook to scale. Um, and
um, we will look forward to our next
great um, our next great event uh, with
HubSpot. It's so great to have had such
a great relationship with so many of the
leaders there. And um, congrats on the
great run. It's incredible.
Absolutely. Thank you so much for having
and for being a supporter and uh, good
luck to everybody who's listening. Uh we
know we can get through this business
cycle like every everything else. Thanks
a lot. See you.